Blog: GSoC 2022 coding starts (#5219)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2022/06/2022-06-13-Let-the-coding-start.adoc

---
layout: post

> title: "Let the (GSoC) codeing start !"

Reviewer: Spelling fix
```suggestion
title: "Let the (GSoC) coding start !"
```

tags:
- gsoc
- gsoc2022
- events
- community
authors:
- jmMeessen
sig: 
- gsoc
description: >

>   GSoC Bonding phase is completed. The Summer of Coding for the four Jenkins projects starts this Monday!" 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  GSoC community bonding phase has finished. Coding for the four Jenkins projects starts today!" 
```

opengraph:
  image: /images/gsoc/opengraph.png
---

image:/images/gsoc/jenkins-gsoc-logo_small.png[Jenkins GSoC, role=center, float=right]

> The GSoC "Bonding Period" just finished. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GSoC community bonding period just finished. 
```

The four Jenkins GSoC projects are now ready. 

> Contact between Contributors and Mentors is established.

Reviewer: Lower case rather than upper case, not an English language "proper noun".
```suggestion
Contact between contributors and mentors is established.
```

Regular communication channels are setup (weekly project meetings and dedicated chat).

> Links to the project plans and plannings drafts are published on the link:https://jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/[project pages].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Links to the project plans and plannings drafts are published on the link:/projects/gsoc/[project pages].
```

Next step, the actual coding! 

Together with their mentors, Dheeraj, Ymming, Hrushikesh, and Vihaan will work the whole summer on their respective projects.

End July, we will perform a public progress review. 

> During an online meetup, the GSoC contributors will to present their project. 

Reviewer: Phrasing improvement
```suggestion
During an online meetup, the GSoC contributors will present their project. 
```

They will be invited to share what has been done to date. 
And why not, make a first preliminary demo. 

> Although very intimidating, this will be a unique opportunity for the Community to comment, advise and get involved with the project. 

Reviewer: We're not intimidating.
```suggestion
This will be an opportunity for the community to comment, advise and get involved with the project. 
```
